Now let's talk about limiting work‑in‑progress,
one of the more interesting topics to me.
Let's explore how Kanban limits work. A resource, a person,
works on one and only one work item at a time.
No exceptions.
Wouldn't you just love to do that?
I know most probably work on several things at once,
usually at the expense of quality.
A person, a resource, pulls or takes new work from the done
buffer only when they have completed their current work item.
No two work items at the same time.
And lastly, the maximum number of work items is set for each workflow step.
You know, a couple slides ago we talked about the capacity for each step.
So that is the definition of limiting work‑in‑progress.
Very simple and very easy to understand.
Here's our board.
So we're going to limit the work‑in‑progress for each workflow step.
We have done the initial analysis of the work we have ahead of
us and we have made the following decisions.
So in this case,
we need two resources for the specify step, we need three
resources for the implement step, and we determined we need
one resource for the validate step.
So, our six resources equals our value stream capacity. Now,
we have chosen these limits by reviewing the backlog, reviewing our
resources, and what we expect the flow of work to be.
Here's our board once again.
Now let's annotate the board further and add more visual cues.
Here's our work‑in‑progress limits per step.
Now let's add the done rules right on the board.
I added them on the bottom in blue.
This is important since you want the team to easily see and
fully understand the done rules while the stand‑up is in action
or when they view the board either in person or online. No one
needs to remember anything.
All the information is right on the board.
These are the same done rules from an earlier slide.
Here's another way to illustrate capacity. So let's
remove the work‑in‑progress limits.
So now the black boxes are gone.
Instead,
we will place the maximum number of work items per step above the column. So
you can see the blue boxes above our steps, 2, 3, and 1,
respectively.
So we have our backlog on the left showing priority work items,
we are using color cards to illustrate the work type, we have
divided our steps into two sub columns, WIP and DONE,
we have added our done rules to the bottom, and now added our
work‑in‑progress limits to the top of each column.
Wow, looks like it's time to get to work.
Why is limiting work so important to a successful Kanban system?
Well,
let me tell you. Limiting work‑in‑progress allows you to
complete single work items faster.
This approach helps you focus only on current work items.
This enables locating and reducing bottlenecks as well because
you can see things stack up in the buffers.
The buffers are the done columns.
Improved workflow and quality will shorten lead
times and improve predictability.
Also,
regular cadence and delivery will build trust with customers and build
trust with upstream and downstream partners alike.
Limiting work‑in‑progress supports higher quality and better workflow performance.